When we talk about archiving, we talk about *justice.* Whose voices have the privilege to be preserved? And with that preservation, what sub-narratives cannot be captured?

Let’s consider, for a moment, NBA 2K16. While an EA Sports yearly release may not be the most fascinating case study, there are the occasional collectors of sports paraphernalia and specifically sporting games who would feel inclined to keep it. Perhaps archive it digitally for others, into the future. What one might not see in the rearview of this process would be the embedded story of injustice therein.

Sondra Perry’s 2017 work, “It’s in the game,” explores the exploitation of the likenesses of college basketball athletes used in 2K without given consent or economic recourse. While a beautiful and moving work that reflects the socio-technical landscape of justice in our modern age coinciding with the treatment of college athletes, can we confidently say these parallel narratives will be preserved? Likely not. Because the web thrives on attention, those things that we find most engaging, most fun, are what persist. If we are to preserve the undercurrents, it takes focused archival attention.

Counterculture has always found a place on the Internet, but rarely survives as the cultural mind shifts and churns away from the issues of today into those of tomorrow. Even in lived reality, justice in archival work is a dicey subject, and one complicated by issues of ownership and accuracy, but movements are, at the least, solidified by their physical lived existence. For Internet archivists into the future, the questions remain: how do we recognize salient narratives? How do we find underrepresented voices? How do we push back against only the survival of that which is made to be engaged with or which holds power, whether in capital or attention? 
