When we talk about archiving, we talk about timescales. On perhaps the longest of timescales, there are stone tablets, inscriptions upon which last thousands of years. Paper and vellum rest somewhere in between. Treated well, they could last for hundreds. Magnetic discs range somewhere between 5 and 20 years of operational use, perhaps more if left undisturbed. Journaling enthusiasts may seek archival inks, promising material properties less prone to corroding or fading over time. What, then, is the timescale of content on the Internet?

This is, as many questions on the Internet are, somewhat of an open question. One study found that, within a ten-year period, a quarter of all webpages that existed between some point in the 2013-2023 range were inaccessible by the end of 2023. Even worse, for content created before or during 2013, this number hiked to 38%. Not all failures are attributed to a disk or SSD—network outages, hosting changes, being priced out—all these mechanisms can lead to disappearance.

Some sources are even less generous in their estimation, suggesting the lifespan of some webpages may be better measured in hours and days, not years. Digital places like the Internet Archive stave this off through the downloading and hosting of sites in maintained digital libraries, hosted on Petabox servers warming an un-air-conditioned building out of San Francisco’s Richmond District. But even these specialized digital repositories are brittle to the follies of political upheaval, capital, and corruption. All this together makes for an archival medium that is fast-fading, requiring much upkeep, and poised to disappear instantly. It may take 5, 10, 20 years for magnetic disc errors to build up such that your site becomes unreadable in local storage, but it only takes the lights going out in the wrong place for the Internet to forget it ever existed.

