When we talk about archiving, we talk about *access.* If a piece of media is rendered inaccessible, it is functionally lost to us. In some traditions of archiving, this is considered okay, even accepted—artifacts are special, immortal things that ought not be touched by the untrained human hand. The Web, though, is an interconnected medium. It was made to be seen, touched, loved. So, for all intents and purposes, we will consider inaccessibility tantamount to death. As we’ve stated, the web divides the internet into nodes (pages) and links. Most of the web is not searchably indexable, and relies on links to do the heavy lifting of navigation. This is where the web is most vulnerable.

Link rot is the primary mechanism by which content on the web becomes unavailable. It can happen in the frontmatter—a search result that leads to nothing, or somewhere you didn’t intend—or in the intermediary, a homepage that seems to maintain its normal existence but whose links to other subpages are all black holes. Worse, two pages could each be hosted on perfectly healthy servers but, through a chain of broken links, become completely inaccessible. The web, as it is, does not support the kind of attribution or backlink awareness to solve this, so the dangling website is not an uncommon (non) sight. 

Even then, what do we truly mean by “rot” and “death”? A page may disappear, but as mentioned, its content may exist regardless. Should we consider archived pages still rotted, if only because we must switch contexts from the page to paste its URL into the Wayback Machine? What about domain changes, where content moves? This is where the web’s hypertextual nature comes out—we care as much about relationships as we do content, and a reduction in the quality of our understanding of these relationships.

So now we have a picture of the mechanisms of death on the Internet; pages fail as computers, drives, age. But links fail for a myriad of other reasons. Intermediary updates gone awry, relocation without propagation, the odd now-and-then forgetting to re-register a domain causing a transfer to those strange liminal URL provider sites, all manners of death and dying on the web. 
