Before we begin, it is important to define and disambiguate some key terms. When we describe an ‘internet,’ we speak to a technical description—an inter-domain network. That is to say, any network that supports multiple information protocols, ways of communicating, and ways of interfacing with the network. When we speak of the Internet, we are speaking of a project and an entity—one that began with the laying of undersea cable from Ireland to Newfoundland in 1858 and persists in the hundreds of submarine cables lining the underside of the Atlantic, carrying your communications over the wire. The Internet is, arguably, humanity’s largest infrastructural project, its greatest example of a truly distributed system, and its vastest information repository. The Internet, as we treat it, is a massive latent soup of information, structured and unstructured. This is in its nature.

The Internet was created with two primary design goals: survival and versatility. What we mean by “survival” is that the Internet should always attempt to maximize its availability at all times as a conduit for information. What we mean by “versatility” is that the Internet should allow many kinds of interaction to be supported with it as a substrate—video streaming, Voice over IP, IRC chats, etc. These are all manners of interfacing with the Internet, and they all ought to be supported. This leads us to our next disambiguation: the ‘Web’ and the ‘Internet,’ as we will discuss them, are two different things. The ‘Web’ refers to the section of the internet that specifically hosts web content obeying the rules of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). This may include things like images and videos, but they must be served as part of a web page, a medium that is rooted in hypertext.

The web organizes information in pages and links. Pages exist as nodes in the latent space of the Web’s information, while links are the method of navigation between them besides searching by domain. Much of the Web is not accessible through search, and this is where links are made most important—finding the hidden things, the unindexed pages and subpages that contain some truth beyond the landing. This disambiguation is significant because, when we think of the Internet, we think of the Web. The Internet is the substrate upon which the global interconnected information sharing service of the Web is built, and even if the Internet lives, the Web can die. Perhaps this makes our title somewhat misleading, but the Internet can die, too. In recent times, archiving the Internet and securing its artifacts has become a concern for those who call it home and who observe those who do.

But what does the death of the Web look like? What does it mean for a page to 'die'? Is it to become inaccessible, floating in the unexplored soup of things connected to something without a map or compass? Is it literal?—to become broken and collapse like rotten wood in the scaffolding of an old home? We will explore this slow death more as you step into your role. You are an archivist, exploring and preserving things in a web whose death is much accelerated. You will have to make choices in what you decide to archive, in its significance, its narrative quality, what it means to you. Finally, you will be provided the opportunity to look back at what was lost.



