When we talk about archiving, we talk about *you.* These days, the barrier to archival work on the Internet has drastically lowered with tools like ArchiveBox, the Internet Archive, the Wayback Machine, and forums and threads of discussion. While the project of preserving the Internet in its entirety may be a futile endeavor, à la Borges, there are choices to be made by those who care to make them. 

The Internet is dying. The web is a churning thing that absorbs and spits out information. You may, at any moment, decide to become a librarian of this dying world, and what then will you choose to preserve? Will you seek to preserve your personal relationship to the Internet, keeping some version of your younger self alive in digital stasis? Will you seek the ephemeral things, which may fade in the blink of an eye on the timescale of the Internet? Will you trawl the undertow for stories others fail to tell?

Truthfully, there is no correct manner to go about preservation. If there is one thing you should come to understand, it is that the memory of the Internet does not follow a strict rationale. There are patterns; moments of attention bring longevity, as do centers of capital or exploitation, but the Internet and the web are, fundamentally, intractable. We might only hope to become more conscious of the act of saving, of our ability to play some part in the grand preservation of this quickly wilting thing. 

Perhaps you will not consider these things so deeply, and instead you will spend time attending to your loves and necessaries. And, when someone floats over the bridge and skates the abyss to find what you’ve left in darkness, there will be a garden.
